[581. Shortest Unsorted Continuous Subarray](https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-unsorted-continuous-subarray/)

## Stack

### Approach 1: Stack

The idea behind this approach is also based on selective sorting. We need to determine the correct position of the minimum and the maximum element in the unsorted subarray to determine the boundaries of the required unsorted subarray.

To do so, in this implementation, we make use of a `stack`. We traverse over the `nums` array starting from the beginning. As we go on facing elements in ascending order(a rising slope), we keep on pushing the elements' indices over the `stack`. This is done because such elements are in the correct sorted order(as it seems till now). As soon as we encounter a falling slope, i.e. an element `nums[j]` which is smaller than the element on the top of the `stack`, we know that `nums[j]` isn't at its correct position.

In order to determine the correct position of `nums[j]`, we keep on popping the elemnents from the top of the stackstack until we reach the stage where the element(corresponding to the index) on the top of the stackstack is lesser than `nums[j]`. Let's say the popping stops when the index on stackstack's top is `k`. Now, `nums[j]` has found its correct position. It needs to lie at an index `k+1`.

We follow the same process while traversing over the whole array, and determine the value of minimum such `k`. This marks the left boundary of the unsorted subarray.

Similarly, to find the right boundary of the unsorted subarray, we traverse over the numsnums array backwards. This time we keep on pushing the elements if we see a falling slope. As soon as we find a rising slope, we trace forwards now and determine the larger element's correct position. We do so for the complete array and thus, determine the right boundary.

```
class Solution {
    public int findUnsortedSubarray(int[] nums) {
        Deque<Integer> stack = new ArrayDeque<>();
        int left = nums.length, right = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i){
            while(!stack.isEmpty() && nums[stack.peek()] > nums[i]){
                left = Math.min(left, stack.pop());
            }
            stack.push(i);
        }
        stack.clear();
        for(int i = nums.length - 1; i >= 0; --i){
            while (!stack.isEmpty() && nums[stack.peek()] < nums[i]){
                right = Math.max(right, stack.pop());
            }
            stack.push(i);
        }
        return left == nums.length ? 0 : right - left + 1;
    }
}
```

Complexity Analysis:
- Time Complexity: `O(N)`
- Space Complexity: `O(N)`

### Approach 2: Sorting

```
class Solution {
    public int findUnsortedSubarray(int[] nums) {
        int[] arr = nums.clone();
        Arrays.sort(arr);
        int left = 0, right = nums.length - 1;
        while(left < nums.length && nums[left] == arr[left]){
            ++left;
        }
        if(left == nums.length){
            return 0;
        }
        while (right >= 0 && nums[right] == arr[right]){
            --right;
        }
        return right - left + 1;
    }
}
```

Complexity Analysis:
- Time Complexity: `O(N * log N)`
- Space Complexity: `O(N)`
